Architecture of Li-Fi system
The main components of a basic Li-Fi system may contain the following:
a) A high brightness white LED which acts as transmission source. 
b) A silicon photodiode with good response to visible light as the receiving element. 
 Switching the LEDs on and off can make them generate digital strings with different combination of 1s and 0s. To generate a new data stream, data can be encoded in the light by varying the flickering rate of the LED.  In this way, the LEDs work as a sender by modulating the light with the data signal. The LED output appears constant to the human because they are made to flicker at a phenomenal speed (millions of times per second) and it’s impossible forhuman eye to detect this frequency. Communication rate more than 100 Mbps can be achieved by using high speed LEDs with the help of various multiplexing techniques. And this VLC data rate can be further increased to as high as 10 Gbps via parallel data transmission using an array of LED lights with each LED transmitting a different data stream.  
Important factors that should be considered while designing Li-Fi are as  follows:  
1) Presence of Light  
2) Line of Sight (Los)  
3) for better performance use fluorescent light & LED   
  					Block diagram of Li-Fi sub- assembles

Working of Li-Fi
The working of Li-Fi is very simple. There is a light emitter on one end i.e. an LED transmitter, and a photo detector (light sensor) on the other. The data input to the LED transmitter is encoded in to the light (technically referred to as Visible Light Communication) by varying the flickering rate at which the LEDs flicker ‘on’ and ‘off’ to generate different strings of 1s and 0s. The on off activity of the LED transmitter which seems to be invisible (The LED intensity is modulated so rapidly that human eye cannot notice, so the light of the LED appears constant to humans), enables data transmission in light form in accordance with the incoming binary codes: switching ON a LED is a logical '1', switching it OFF is a logical '0'. By varying the rate at which the LEDs flicker on and off, information can be encoded in the light to different combinations of 1s and 0s.   
            In a typical setup, the transmitter (LED) is connected to the data network (Internet through the modem) and the receiver (photo detector/light sensor) on the receiving end receives the data as light signal and decodes the information, which is then displayed on the device connected to the receiver. The receiver (photo detector) registers a binary ‘1’ when the transmitter (LED) is ON and a binary ‘0’ when the transmitter (LED) is OFF. Thus flashing the LED numerous times or using an array of LEDs (perhaps of a few different colours) will eventually provide data rates in the range of hundreds of Mbps. The Li-Fi working is explained in a block diagram
 
  Hence all that is required, is some or an array of LEDs and a controller that controls/encodes data into those LEDs. All one has to do is to vary the rate at which the LEDs flicker depending upon the data input to LEDs. Further data rate enhancements can be made in this method, by using array of the LEDs for parallel data transmission, or using mixtures of red , green and blue LEDs to alter the light’s frequency, with each frequency encoding a different data channel. Figure shows working/deployment of a Li-Fi system connecting the devices in a room.


 

Applications of Li-Fi
	Education systems: Li-Fi is the latest technology that can provide fastest speed for Internet access. So, it can augment/replace Wi-Fi at educational institutions and at companies so that the people there can make use of Li-Fi with the high speed. 
	Medical Applications: Operation theatres (OTs) do not allow Wi-Fi due to radiation concerns. Usage of Wi-Fi at hospitals interferes/blocks the signals for monitoring equipments. So, it may have hazardous effect to the patient's health, due to improper working of medical apparatus. To overcome this and to make OT tech savvy Li-Fi can be used to access internet and also to control medical equipments. This will be beneficial for conducting robotic surgeries and other automated procedures.
	Underwater applications: Underwater ROVs (Remotely Operated Vehicles) operate from large cables that supply their power and allow them to receive signals from their pilots above. But the tether used in ROVs is not long enough to allow them to explore larger areas. If their wires were replaced with light — say from a submerged, highpowered lamp — then they would be much freer to explore. They could also use their headlamps to communicate with each other, processing data autonomously and sending their findings periodically back to the surface. Li-Fi can even work underwater where Wi-Fi fails completely, thereby throwing open endless opportunities for military underwater operations. 
	Mobile Connectivity: Mobiles, laptops, tablets, and other smart phones can easily connect with each other. The short-range network of Li-Fi can yield exceptionally high data rates and higher security. 
	Replacement for other technologies: Li-Fi doesn‘t work using radio waves. So, it can be easily used in the places where Bluetooth, infrared, Wi-Fi, etc. are banned
	 Cheaper Internet in Aircrafts: The passengers travelling in aircrafts get access to low speed Internet that too at a very high price. Also Wi-Fi is not used because it may interfere with the navigational systems of the pilots. In aircrafts Li-Fi can be used for data transmission. Li-Fi can easily provide high speed Internet via every light source such as overhead reading bulb, etc. present inside the airplane.
Advantages of Li-Fi
	Efficiency: Energy consumption can be minimised with the use of LED illumination which are already available in the home, offices and Mall etc. for lighting purpose. Hence the transmission of data requiring negligible additional power, which makes it very efficient in terms of costs as well as energy
	High speed: Combination of low interference, high bandwidths and high-intensity output, help Li-Fi provide high data rates i.e. 1 Gbps or even beyond.
	Security: One main advantage of Li-Fi is security. Since light cannot pass through opaque structures, Li-Fi internet is available only to the users within a confined area and cannot be intercepted and misused, outside the area under operation
